[.NET Guidelines] Target frameworks + dependencies (#8550)
Azure/azure-sdk: docs/dotnet/introduction.md

##### Conditional Request Methods

> Some services support conditional requests that are used to implement optimistic concurrency control. In Azure, optimistic concurency is typically implemented using If-Match headers and ETags. See [Managing Concurrency in Blob Storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/storage/blobs/concurrency-manage?tabs=dotnet) as a good example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some services support conditional requests that are used to implement optimistic concurrency control. In Azure, optimistic concurency is typically implemented using `If-Match` headers and ETags. See [Managing Concurrency in Blob Storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/storage/blobs/concurrency-manage?tabs=dotnet) as a good example.
```

> Some services support conditional requests that are used to implement optimistic concurrency control. In Azure, optimistic concurency is typically implemented using If-Match headers and ETags. See [Managing Concurrency in Blob Storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/concurrency-manage?tabs=dotnet) as a good example.

Author: wow, those predate me.  I thought I got all the docs=>learn translations, but I didn't check to see if there were any culture slugs still hanging out.

{% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-packaging-nuget" %} package all components as NuGet packages.

If your client library is built by the Azure SDK engineering systems, all packaging requirements will be met automatically. Follow the [.NET packaging guidelines](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/library-guidance/nuget) if you're self-publishing. For Microsoft owned packages, we need to support both windows (for windows dump diagnostics) and portable (for x-platform debugging) pdb formats which means you need to publish them to the Microsoft symbol server and not the NuGet symbol server which only supports portable pdbs.

{% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-packaging-naming" %} name the package based on the name of the main namespace of the component.

> For example, if the component is in the `Azure.Storage.Blobs` namespace, the component DLL will be `Azure.Storage.Blobs.dll` and the NuGet package will be `Azure.Storage.Blobs`

Author: ```suggestion
For example, if the component is in the `Azure.Storage.Blobs` namespace, the component DLL will be `Azure.Storage.Blobs.dll` and the NuGet package will be `Azure.Storage.Blobs`.
```

{% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-version-change-on-release" %} select a version number greater than the highest version number of any other released Track 1 package for the service in any other scope or language.

### Target Frameworks

> All Azure SDK libraries must target [.NET Standard 2.0].  This ensures that they are compatible with all supported versions of .NET, covering both modern .NET and the .NET Framework.  

Reviewer 2: Even though it is clarified in the next paragraph, it might be clearer to say that we include netstandard2.0 as a minimum requirement.

```suggestion
All Azure SDK libraries must include a target of [.NET Standard 2.0].  This ensures that they are compatible with all supported versions of .NET, covering both modern .NET and the .NET Framework.  
```

> All Azure SDK libraries must include a target for [.NET Standard 2.0].  This ensures that they are compatible with all supported versions of .NET, covering both modern .NET and the .NET Framework.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Azure SDK libraries must include a target for [.NET Standard 2.0]. This ensures that they are compatible with all supported versions of .NET, covering both modern .NET and the .NET Framework.  
```

Libraries built by the Azure SDK engineering system will also target the oldest supported [long term support (LTS)] version of .NET. This enables them to take advantage of modern runtime features, allows applications to fully benefit from modern runtimes, and obviates the need for applications to download polyfill shim packages for functionality already built-into modern runtimes. It is strongly encouraged that self-published libraries also include this target framework.

> For projects built by the Azure SDK engineering system, use the following target setting is in the `.csproj` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For projects built by the Azure SDK engineering system, use the following target setting in the `.csproj` file:
```

If not building with the Azure SDK engineering system, use the following target setting in the `.csproj` file:

```xml
<TargetFrameworks>netstandard2.0</TargetFrameworks>
```

{% include requirement/SHOULD id="dotnet-build-net-standard" %} build libraries for the oldest supported LTS version of .NET.

For example, if the oldest supported LTS version of .NET is `8.0`, use the following target setting in the `.csproj` file if not building with the Azure SDK engineering system:

```xml
<TargetFrameworks>netstandard2.0;net8.0</TargetFrameworks>
```

{% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-build-multi-targeting-api" %} define the same APIs for all [target framework monikers (TFMs)][.NET Target Framework Monikers].

The public API of client libraries must be the same for all targets including class, interface, parameter, and return types.

{% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-specialtfm-approval" %} engage the [Architecture Board] if your client library has special needs for targeting additional frameworks or is unable to target the required set.

#### Target Framework Retirement

> When a [long term support (LTS)] version of .NET reaches end-of-life and is no longer supported, Azure SDK libraries will no longer target it. To minimize the impact to developers and allow time for migration, Azure SDK libraries will continue to target the previous LTS package for 6 months after it has reached end-of-life. During that period, Azure SDK libraries will target the currently supported LTS, retired LTS, and `netstandard2.0`.  

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion to order the explanation with the occurrence of events. 

```suggestion
When a new [long term support (LTS)] version of .NET is released, Azure SDK libraries will add that target. Azure SDK libraries will continue to target the previous LTS package for 6 months after it has reached end-of-life to minimize the impact to developers and allow time for migration. During that period, Azure SDK libraries will target the currently supported LTS, retired LTS, and `netstandard2.0`. After the 6-month cool down period, Azure SDK libraries will no longer target the most recently retired LTS.
```

Author: I tweaked the early parts of this to align with previous statements.   We always target the earliest supported LTS version - not necessarily the latest.   Generally, your statement is true, as there is only one LTS version active at a time.  I tried to capture that and apply your suggestions.

* `Azure.*` packages from the [azure/azure-sdk-for-net] repository.
* `System.*` packages published by the Microsoft .NET team.
* `Microsoft.*` packages approved by the [Architecture Board]. 
* Third-party packages explicitly approved by the [Architecture Board] for specific scenarios with special needs.
* Packages produced by your own team.

In the past, [JSON.NET](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json), aka Newtonsoft.Json, was commonly used for serialization and deserialization. Use the [System.Text.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Text.Json/)
package that is now a part of the .NET platform instead. If you are using `Azure.Core`, there is no need for a direct reference to the `System.Text.Json` package.  Your client library will have access to it automatically.

{% include requirement/MUSTNOT id="dotnet-dependencies-exposing" %} publicly expose types from dependencies unless the types follow these guidelines as well.

#### Package Dependency Versions

For libraries using the Azure SDK for .NET repository, dependency versions are managed centrally and will automatically be applied to your library as part of the Azure SDK engineering system builds.

> {% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-runtime-package-versions" %} align versions of Microsoft [.NET runtime libraries] with the oldest supported [long term support (LTS)] version of .NET. For example, if the oldest supported LTS version of .NET is `8.0`, references to runtime libraries such as `System.Text.Json` should target the latest version in the `8.x` line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-runtime-package-versions" %} align versions of Microsoft [.NET runtime libraries] with the oldest supported [long term support (LTS)] version of .NET. For example, if the oldest supported LTS version of .NET is `8.0`, references to runtime libraries such as `System.Text.Json` should target the latest minor and patch version with a major version of `8`.
```

> {% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-dependency-supported-versions" %} ensure all dependencies reference version supported by the publisher that is not marked as deprecated or flagged by NuGet for vulnerabilities. 

Author: ```suggestion
{% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-dependency-supported-versions" %} ensure all dependencies reference a version supported by the publisher that is not marked as deprecated or flagged by NuGet for vulnerabilities. 
```

> {% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-dependency-compatibile-versions" %} consider all platforms that your library will run on and ensure dependencies/versions are compatible. For example, the Azure Functions host and Azure PowerShell have explicit version requirements for dependencies shared between the host and applications.  

Reviewer 2: should we link to more information here or maybe even the Packages.Data.props file [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/d85104b6ed445ab08694363ca7a6e5d5fa2f040d/eng/Packages.Data.props#L57-L83)?

Author: Maybe?   I added it, let's see how it works out.

> {% include requirement/MUST id="dotnet-dependency-compatibile-versions" %} consider all platforms that your library will run on and ensure dependencies/versions are compatible. For example, the Azure Functions host and Azure PowerShell have explicit version requirements for dependencies shared between the host and applications.  _(see: [Packages.Data.props](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/eng/Packages.Data.props#L57-L83) for more information.)_

Reviewer: Since specific line numbers are referenced in this link, should we use a GitHub permalink?

Author: I considered that and decided against it.  The lines here are a convenience jump to the Track 2 section, which is most applicable to readers.   The downside to a permalink is that we're hitting a specific commit with potentially outdated information.  Readers looking at this would see older versions and are likely to make assumptions based on that information.   

On the other hand, linking to `main` may cause the section to move around a bit, but that's reasonably obvious when looking for something and would at least reflect the current set of versions.
